when we're digging the bones of the
dinosaurs we're also very interested in
learning about their habitats in their
environment when they're alive so we
actually try to collect other things as
we're as we're working on the bones one
of those things we find are these fossil
leaves and as you can see here this one
is still somewhat buried in the rock but
when we get back to the lab we'll be
able to uncover it and be able to get a
good identification of it some of the
leaves or fossil plants we find are
actually identifiable right away this
sequoia cone for instance you can tell
exactly what it is when as we collected
it now in addition to Sequoia which are
actually redwood trees we find Eric area
monkey puzzle trees here with these
dinosaur bones this tells us that the
climate here was very very different
than what it was like today it was much
warmer it didn't actually freeze at
night as it does in the winter we get
down to 50 below but it didn't do that
65 million years ago it was quite a warm
climate so that's what was needed places
where dinosaurs would feel at home these
days they are pretty hard to find it has
been a complete nightmare trying to find
locations and if I had to put my finger
on one reason it's grass grass never
appeared in dinosaur times and yet grass
is all over this world and even when we
find wonderful tree
there's always grass in there amongst
them and you want a bit a clear area to
stick your dinosaur and your fine grass
there are though
still places where the right habitats
exist in the course of making the series
the film crew travels far and wide to
locations that reflect what the world
was like back in the time of dinosaurs
the triassic of 220 million years ago
was discovered in the eerie setting of
New Caledonia a land of Jurassic Giants
was found in the redwood forests of
California and the lava fields of Chile
were a match for the Cretaceous of 65
million years ago
at the moment we're filming a mother
Tyrannosaurus feeding her young and she
lived just at the end of the time
dinosaurs Tyrannosaurus was only around
for the last two million years and to
film it we've come to this place which
is in Chile and there's an ideal forest
here because what we have is a low
scrubbing off of Vegas which is a
southern beach came along just at the
end of the time of dinosaurs and behind
it this wonderful araucaria forest or
monkey puzzle and monkey puzzles have
been around since before the time of the
dinosaurs so the combination is ideal
but what makes it really special is it's
on an old ash field because of a nearby
volcano and there's no grass here after
that so it all fits together to be the
right sort of background for
Tyrannosaurus can you reach over enough
yeah good now the eyes
the ice game accompanying the film trips
was an assortment of animatronics this
is a baby Tyrannosaurus puppet with
remote-control nostrils ever so slightly
squeeze that's all and then do the
nostrils frylock okay any camera handy
and you're a bit reluctant come closer
to it
sniff now back off a bit now come in
again they were used for all the
close-up shots and back off now on Dean
you can re-inject the larger head
represents the mother wears you down
down down push and out again
alright let's just try that one more
time it's all happening a bit delicately
cut a minute you've got to be more
positive keep that lower jaw attitude
still heads and then try and be more
positive come in with a firm movement
and shove all right run is all I say
turning going any car movie
you have a look and sniff the air a bit
and then you look up and you back up
good that's nice and pull it out
the animatronics were in a sense only
bit parts they were not complete animals
those had yet to come to life that would
be next